Food & Agriculture are two interdependent industrial sectors. Agricultural raw material acts as the input for food industry, which processes them & finally provides the end product to customer. Therefore, a continuum needs to be maintained between these two industries. This result in the emergence of Food & Agribusiness Management which includes various practices, processes & technologies used to improve the efficiency of these two industries. Food and agricultural industries add value to each others processes and increase demand for farm outputs.

Agriculture sector in India makes a contribution of around 22% in Gross Domestic Product (GDP). More than 65 % of the population is engaged in agriculture directly or indirectly. Now-a-days, agriculture sector is facing tough competition due to various factors like constantly changing policy environment, factors relating to demographic dividends, requirement and creation of complex supply-chain demands along with integration of world markets and economies.

To understand this complexity and to work on it effectively, skilled manpower is required so that quick and correct decisions can be taken which will effectively solve the problem that this sector is facing on various fronts.

Due to constantly changing agribusiness environment, there is a need and requirement for agribusiness managers and decision makers to take complex and correct decision after responding to these changing markets and policies. The aim of this programme is to educate and then prepare students to take the charge of leading change in the industry.

Thus, in order to cope up with the changing agricultural business environment, IGMPI has designed this programme to educate students about latest trends in Agribusiness industry, current environment and also aims to increase the knowledge and develop necessary skills of students which are a requisite for taking effective decisions in real world.

The duration of the program is one year & helpful to prepare students for careers in Management related to Agriculture, Food, Agri-business, Rural and allied sectors of the economy



Onions can be grown from seeds, seedlings and bulblets. Proper nursery management and transplanting are important operations in the onion crop. About 0.05 hectare nursery bed area is enough for getting seedlings to transplant in one hectare. ... About 5-7 kg seeds are required to raise seedlings for one hectare.